And every morning
—and I mean every morning—
there’s Jeremy singing
at the top of his lungs.
OK, I wasn’t the only one.
No, but you were the loudest.
Spoken like a true big brother.
I was always impressed
with how close you two were.
Hmm.
Well, it wasn’t always that way.
No.
I mean, it started out that way.
Nick and I—we weren’t just brothers;
we were friends.
But then the family business
ran into trouble,
and what started
as a small disagreement just exploded.
You don’t even understand at all
how our business works!
Instead of criticizing,
could you just once . . .
Jeremy!
Do you have any idea
what this is going to cost us?
I didn’t have a choice.
You went behind my back!
What’s your problem?
You!
You’re the problem.
We tried to work it out.
But things just got worse.
It was like a door
had slammed shut between us.
On the outside,
I acted like everything was fine.
But inside, I couldn’t let it go.
I felt like a total hypocrite,
and that had to change.
I needed a lot of help from Jehovah
to let go
—to move on—
and make things right with Nick.
It took a long time
for the wounds to heal . . .
. . . and for us to trust each other
the way we used to.
But we did.
I’m so grateful that we made peace
before the world turned upside down.
You see,
the pandemic lasted longer
than any of us expected,
and all the conflicting news reports
just added to the stress.
Then my sister lost her job
and had to move in with us.
So, yeah, it was me
and Kelly, Nicole, and Dad.
Twenty seconds, Son
—twenty seconds.
I’ll see you later.
Yeah.
Uh, where’s your mask?
Don’t worry.
Here, you can use this one.
I won’t get near anyone.
Gary.
Listen!
Nobody at the warehouse is wearing masks.
And do you know how many people
have actually gotten sick?
Zero.
So far.
You saw the last Governing Body update.
We can’t let down our guard.
Not now.
Dad, I get it.
OK?
Look, I think it’s great that the brothers
are trying to keep us safe.
But . . .
But what?
Don’t you think that they’re,
you know, overreacting?
But, of course, it wasn’t
the brothers who had the problem.
It was me.
A week later, I found out that a friend
in our service group
was in the hospital with COVID-19.
He was young, and he had been taking
all the right precautions.
I had really let my guard down.
Now is not the time
to slacken our hand when it comes to safety.
Don’t let your guard down.
Don’t think the virus
can’t affect you or your family.
I saw how the organization
was really trying to protect us
and how much my decisions
were affecting others,
including the people I love the most.
As the pandemic dragged on,
I learned the importance
of being humble and obedient.
Following Jehovah’s direction
didn’t just help us stay safe,
it brought us peace.
And you know how Jehovah’s people are.
When there’s a need,
our brothers step up.
So even though we had
a lot of work to do back then,
we always had willing workers
—so many workers that some started to feel
like they were being overlooked.
Hey, Ray!
What’s up?
Hey, Matt,
I hear you’re organizing
the food distribution for our congregation.
Yeah, I’m trying my best.
Yeah, well, can I give you a hand?
My truck is all ready to go.
We actually just finished loading up
for the day, so I think we’re good.
But, wow, yeah,
thank you very much for offering.
OK.
When’s the next run?
You know what, Ray?
We’re about to pull out right now.
Is it OK if I call you back?
Yeah.
Yeah, sure.
Ray was such a hard worker,
more than most of us even realized.
He put his heart into every assignment.
Who was that?
But when I told him
we already had all the help we needed,
it didn’t go the way I hoped.
Ray, I think you’re muted.
So, what you’re saying is
you don’t think I’m qualified to help out.
No, no, we just—
We know how hard
you’re working caring for your mom.
We didn’t want to . . .
Isn’t Paul Thompson on your crew?
Yeah, but—
And Oliver Kagan?
Oliver’s my assistant, yes, but—
So how does this work, Matt?
I mean, you just use your friends,
and you shut the rest of us out.
Don’t you think I notice
how you brothers ignore me?
Ray, I owe you an apology.
I’m so sorry.
I should’ve spoken with you
about this right from the start.
You’re working so hard
taking care of your mom.
The last thing we wanted to do
was make things harder for you.
But even more than that,
we didn’t want to have to ask you
to do something
that would put you
or your mother at higher risk.
I know.
I worry about that too.
You know,
your mom
—we wouldn’t want anything to happen to her.
She’s one of our congregation treasures.
I know.
And you’re not so bad either.
Seriously, you’re such a good example.
Think how Jehovah must feel when he sees
all that you’re doing
for us and for your mom.
Thank you.
That means a lot to me.
If something comes up
that I can help with then
—even just a little—
and I can do it from home—
Well, that’s a good point.
Maybe I can get your thoughts
on something, if that’s OK?
And later on,
when things got even more intense,
that’s when our peace
was really put to the test.
Yeah, but, Tim, you always
found a way to keep us positive.
Well, I learned a lot about that
from my better half.
Amy has always had a way
of bringing people together.
For example, just before the pandemic,
there were these two pioneer sisters
in our congregation.
Becky was energetic, industrious,
and fearless in her ministry,
and Lena was experienced, self-sacrificing,
and such a good Bible teacher.
But they didn’t exactly get along.
Are you ready to go?
Are you OK?
It’s just— It’s Becky.
She’s just such a phantom pioneer.
We never see her.
I’m sorry, but she just needs
to be more serious
about her ministry.
Well, she’s been doing
metro witnessing and . . .
I know, I know, and LDC too, right?
She does plumbing?
Concrete.
She does have a lot of energy!
Do you remember
when we used to be like that?
I don’t know that I was ever like Becky.
No, you weren’t.
You were Beckyer than Becky.
I couldn’t keep up with you
—those long service days
in your little red car.
That feels like a long time ago.
Yeah.
You know, Becky reminds me a lot of you
—I mean both of us—
twenty years ago.
She’s working so hard,
and she’s made
so many sacrifices
for the truth,
just like you have.
I think we should get together
—the three of us.
You should get to know her better.
The next week,
I had them both over to the house.
And the more those two
got to know each other,
the closer they became.
You know that proverb:
“The tongue of the wise is a healing”?
Amy taught me what that verse really means.
OK, everyone out!
When everything changed
and we suddenly
found ourselves locked up together,
I tried to show that same spirit
so that we could stay united.
And with Jehovah’s help,
we did.
The first time we met David,
we were in chains!
I’d seen a lot of things
during my time as a guard,
but nothing like the peace that you all had.
Prison chains may be strong,
but we all had something much stronger.
But we had to work for that peace.
Right, Phil?
That’s right.
See, there was a misunderstanding
that got blown all out of proportion.
And I didn’t handle it the best.
The more I tried to defend myself,
the worse it became.
Brothers, there must be some mistake.
This isn’t true.
You know me!
I wasn’t prepared
for how far it would go.
There’s one more announcement.
Brother Philip Kim
is no longer serving as an elder.
Well, that brings our meeting to a close.
Now we can stand.
The next few months were a real struggle.
But when more details came to light,
I thought I’d be reappointed,
but I wasn’t.
Phil!
I couldn’t understand why.
Phil, come on . . .
I felt bitterness growing inside.
Phil, you know . . .
Everything became about me
—how I felt, what I deserved.
It was like a fog that stopped me
from seeing what Jehovah deserved,
and I really needed his help.
I found comfort
in accounts of Jehovah’s servants
who were either misunderstood or misjudged
but maintained their loyalty to Him.
They helped me realize that it’s a privilege
just to be in Jehovah’s organization.
Being at peace with my brothers
was more important
than any appointed position.
Without peace, I don’t know
how we could’ve managed what was to come.
Is your arthritis bad today?
Then I’ll be your secretary
just like Baruch was to Jeremiah.
I don’t know what I’d do without you.
But you know, there is more to the story.
Phil didn’t know just
how tense things were between Tim and I.
No idea.
We never talked,
I mean really talked, about it
until it was too late.
Look!
We need to talk.
I think we need to seriously reconsider
Phil’s qualifications.
You know he’s not
the type of brother that . . .
Enough. Enough!
Enough about Phil.
I know he’s your friend, . . .
Friend?
. . . but the body agreed that he
no longer qualified to serve as an elder.
Friend?
He’s worked with us for years!
The body decided, unanimously,
that he should no longer serve.
Because you pushed them!
Excuse me?
It’s enough that we have
those outside the congregation
putting pressure on us;
we do not need more in here!
Do you seriously think . . .
The conversation
—the argument—
it was terrible.
We both said things we didn’t mean.
And after that,
we both handled the situation poorly.
We needed to make things right.
It wasn’t easy,
but we talked it out.
And we made peace with Jehovah’s help.
Can you imagine what it would have been like
in that cellblock if we hadn’t?
We finally told Phil the whole story
once we were all roommates.
Wow!
We’re ready!
Let’s go sing.
Like an island of calm
In dark stormy seas,
God’s people are living in peace.
With our eyes of faith,
We see beyond the clouds
And know that the storm soon will cease.
To the ends of the earth,
There’ll be peace at last
For all eternity.
From the valleys below . . .
There’s one more story to tell.
I didn’t know it at the time,
but seeds of truth
were being planted in my heart.
You were all so different.
I couldn’t understand it.
You were prisoners, yes,
but you felt free
—truly free.
After you were released,
it became clear to me
that you have God’s blessing,
and I wanted to know why.
Phil helped me find the answer.
“And you will know the truth,
and the truth will set you free.”
Phil encouraged me to make the truth my own.
I had real trouble at first.
With all the turmoil going on at the time,
the idea of being peaceable
and waiting on God’s Kingdom
—it was hard to grasp.
But with Jehovah’s help
and the patience of these good people,
I was baptized
before the start of the great tribulation.
Joseph, during our time in prison,
the story of your life
—your time in prison
and how Jehovah was always with you—
became a real source of strength
for us.
I remember one day,
Carl said—
What did you say?
I said, “One day,
we’ll have a meal with Joseph,
and we’ll say ‘thank you.’”
And here we are!
Really, it’s I who should thank you.
Each and every one
of your stories
touches my heart.
You know a lot about my life,
but would it be all right
if I shared a few more stories?
Please!
We have so many questions.
Can you tell us about Egypt?
What was Pharaoh really like?
Dreams!
We have to talk about those dreams.
You do have many questions!
And I have many details to share.
And thanks to our God, Jehovah,
we have all the time we need.